requirements.md, before:

# Requirements
## 1. General System Requirements
- All displays throughout the game should follow a 4:3 aspect ratio with 1024 × 768 px.
- All displays have the same font/colour
- Background music and sound effects

## 2. Menu Requirements
- The Menu screen must display the game’s name "Sonder". 
- Menu display shows a graphic of a garden
- Menu display shows a welcoming written message, randomly selected 
- The Menu screen must display 3 buttons of "Start", "Garden", and "Entries".
- Clicking "Start" must direct to the start screen.
- Clicking "Garden" must direct to the garden screen.
- Clicking "Entries" must direct to the entries screen.

## 3. Start Requirements



- Task 1: 
- Task 2: 
- Task 3: 
  
## 4. Garden Requirements
- Always display the background of a garden image
- The garden take a 3*5 grid for planting flowers (maybe invisible?)
- Each cell of the grid holds one and only one flower
- New flowers can only added to empty cell
- After finishing task of the 15th day, a special flower will be planted on the last cell
- Flower type and position must be saved after user planted each flower

## 5. Entries Requirements
- Entries must be organized in a vertical list
- Entries must be organized chronologically with the most recent at the top
- Must contain a scroll bar to scroll up and down the list
- Entries must contain the date, response to all three tasks, and the flower of their choosing for the day
- Progress must be saved after the chosen flower is planted for the day

Commit message:

Revise game requirements for clarity and detail
Updated requirements for consistency, user tasks, and data handling.

requirements.md, after:

# Requirements
## 1. General System Requirements
- All displays throughout the game should follow a 4:3 aspect ratio with 1024 × 768 px.
- All displays have a consistent font style, colour and size
- The game plays background music and sound effects where appropriate

## 2. Menu Requirements
- The Menu screen must display the game’s name "Sonder". 
- The Menu display shows a graphic of a garden
- The Menu display shows a welcoming written message, randomly selected from a list of predetermined messages
- The Menu screen must display 3 buttons of "Start", "Garden", and "Entries".
- Clicking "Start" must direct to the start screen, where the user may begin their daily tasks. 
- Clicking "Garden" must direct to the garden screen, where the user views their current garden.
- Clicking "Entries" must direct to the entries screen, where the user views their past entries.
- For testing purposes, a keyboard shortcut on the menu screen advances the internal clock to the next day, allowing the user to complete the next set of tasks.

## 3. Start Requirements
- Pressing start checks whether the daily tasks have been completed. 
- If the tasks have not been completed, the start screen directs the user to the next screen to complete the following tasks
   - Task 1: “How are you feeling today?” The user chooses between 5 hand-drawn faces on a scale of different emotions, ranging from positive to negative. The user selects the image using the mouse, then proceeds to the next task.
   - Task 2: “What is one thing you’re grateful for?” Provides a textbox for the user to input their answer. Upon hitting ENTER, the user proceeds to the next task.
   - Task 3: “What is one thing you learned today? What is one goal you have for tomorrow?” →  Provides a textbox for the user to input their answer. Upon hitting ENTER, the user proceeds to the next task.
   - Task 4: “Choose a flower:” → user chooses one flower out of three options displayed on screen (randomly generated from a set of 14 total flowers, but does not include duplicate flowers that the user has selected from the previous day.
   - Task 5: User must place their chosen flower somewhere within the 3x5 flower grid; click and press enter
- If the tasks have been completed, the start screen displays a message to the user to indicate that the tasks have already been completed for the day
- The tasks reset daily based on the internal clock
- The user’s task data is saved to a JSON file upon completing the last task
- A special message is displayed upon completing the 15th day, indicating the user has completed the two-week challenge

## 4. Garden Requirements
- The garden displays the background of a garden image
- The garden loads the previously saved garden data, even after exiting the program
- The flowers displayed in the garden match the type and location selected by the user.
- There are a total of 15 unique flowers that can be planted in the garden.
- The garden displays a 3*5 grid for planting flowers (maybe invisible?)
- Each cell of the grid holds one and only one flower
- A new flower can be planted in any empty cell
- New flowers can only be added to an empty cell
- After finishing the task on the 15th day, a special flower with unique visuals will be planted in the last cell
- After all cells are filled, the user can select a flower to replace
- Flower type and position must be saved after the user plants the flower in a JSON file.

## 5. Entries Requirements
- Entries must be organized in a vertical list
- Entries must be organized chronologically with the most recent at the top
- Must contain a scroll bar to scroll up and down the list
- Entries must contain the date, response to all three tasks, and the flower of their choosing for the day
- Progress must be saved after the chosen flower is planted for the day
